>> Todd Gardner: Google's Core Web Vitals.
We're gonna be on this one for
a little while.
The Core Web Vitals measure three things,
three specific kinds of performance.
One, how fast your site visibly loads
to the user, not the load event,
but how fast the site feels like it has
loaded in terms the user viewing it.
The second thing is how smooth it loads.
How smooth is the sequence of events
that happens during that load.
And third, how quickly can
users interact with your site?
And those are measured with
three different metrics called
the Largest Contentful Paint, or
LCP, the Cumulative Layout Shift,
or CLS, and
Interaction to Next Paint, or INP.
Now, we're gonna go into each
one of these in a lot of detail.
But first, let's just talk about, so
this is important again, because search
ranking incorporates the core web vitals
and other page experience metrics.
These things are ranking factors,
these things specifically.
So there's other performance metrics, and
they're important for various reasons,
but these three we talk about
a lot in web performance world and
in SEO world because they
are direct ranking factors.
So let's get into them.
LCP, the Largest Contentful Paint,
the LCP is how fast your site
visibly loads the most important element,
that's what it's trying to load.
How fast is the most important
element on your site load?
Now, what's important?
What's important element?
Who gets to decide what
the important thing is?
Do you get to tell Google like, hey, this
product image is the most important thing?
No, Google doesn't trust you because
if you got to tell Google what the most
important thing is, you'd put some
little empty div at the top of the page
that loads right away as
the most important and
you'd have super fast LCP scores,
that doesn't work.
It needs to be in a way that developers
can't influence this in negative ways.
It needs to be about what the user
sees as the important thing.
And so, instead of important,
we actually measure the largest.
The largest thing by
pixel area on the page.
But wouldn't that just
be the body elements?
No, there's only specific
things we care about.
We care about these things,
we look at images, videos,
CSS background images, and
any DOM element that contains text.
We look at all of those elements and
we try and decide what the largest is.
But there's some rules,
because not every one of these elements,
even though they exist on the page, would
be visible or interesting to the user.
So there's some rules that apply to this.
One is, it can't have a 0 opacity.
If you've made the element transparent,
it doesn't count for LCP,
you can't trick it, right?
Otherwise, we can take an element, make
it really big, make its opacity 0, and
it would always be our LCP element and
we could hack the metric.
Its size needs to be smaller
than the whole page.
You can't just throw an element and cover
the entire viewport and call that the LCP
element because Google will say, that
doesn't count, no, that's a background.
And the third thing is that,
it doesn't count for
low entropy images less than 0.05.
And a lot of you should
be saying right now,
Todd, WTF is entropy,
that is too big of a word for this class.
No, it's not, because it's important for
LCP, so let's talk about entropy.
Here's an image, this is the hero
image for developer stickers.
Unencoded, this is 3.9 megabytes,
which means it's 31 million bytes.
Entropy is calculated by the number
of bits per visible pixel shown.
So if we render this
image at 2,800 by 1,200,
which is the biggest it can be shown at,
that means we're gonna
render those 31 million bytes
across 3.3 million pixels.
Entropy is just dividing those,
it's saying, how much data are we showing?
How much data density are we
showing in this image?
So, the score here is 9.39,
this would qualify as an LCP image.
Now, why is this important?
Well, a common pattern that a lot
of people will use is to use images
like this.
Here's a heavily blurred and
down sampled version of the same image.
And unencoded,
that image is 17 bytes, 17 bytes,
and its dimension is really small as well.
So it's only 200 by 88.
And so, when we render this image,
let's say we rendered this image as
a placeholder, we stuck this in and then
used JavaScript to replace it later, so
that the user kind of felt
like it wasn't as slow.
The entropy of this is 17/17,000 or
0.001, so it's very, very low entropy.
There's very little visual
data in this image.
It's basically a blank color with
a little bit of variation to it.
So why is this important?
Well, that image right there,
if I tried to use this as a placeholder,
doesn't count for LCP.
It doesn't matter when that loads,
it doesn't matter how fast we made it.
Google doesn't thinks that counts because
the user doesn't think that counts
as gonna wait for that full image to
come in and would trigger the LCP event.
So, this pattern doesn't act,
even though it would help user experience,
does not actually help you
improve Largest Contentful Paint.
How do you get this information?
Here's a little sample, you can
actually calculate this in JavaScript.
This sample and all the other ones
like it are actually in the repo.
If you look in, public, assets,
JavaScript, code samples,
here's all the different assets
that I have screenshot or
all the different bits of
code that I've screenshotted.
So if you wanna actually use one and
play with it, they're all in here,
including this one that I just referenced.
Now, this one here, all right,
this one actually allows us to calculate
the entropy of every image on the page.
We can do this with JavaScript.
We can grab every single
image that has a source.
We can figure out how big it is,
how many bytes are in it.
We can figure out how many pixels are
being rendered, and divide them across,
that's kind of interesting.
We can go in and figure out which images
may or may not qualify for entropy.
If you don't use this blurring effect or
if you don't use backgroundy patterns and
stuff like that, this isn't super useful.
This is specifically if your
website uses this sort of
pattern to try and improve LCP.
So what is the largest?
Well, depending on when things load,
a couple of different things
could be the largest.
So, we look at everything on the page and
we calculate its size.
So sometimes, if that hero image
is particularly slow to load,
sometimes that takes 30 seconds to load
and it's outside of the LCP window.
This thing is the largest thing,
which is hero content P,
which is 662 pixels by 112 pixels,
or 74,000 total pixels.
More often,
this is the LCP image on our site,
which is the desk hero desktop,
which is 1740 by 640 or
1.1 million pixels, which is by
far the largest thing on the page.
So, the LCP in our case is measuring,
how long does it take to bring
down that giant hero image?
And if we replace it with the blur one,
it's not actually gonna fix it at all
because that'd be too low of entropy.
So here's what that looks like
if we put it in sequence.
So here's that film strip of all the
different things that this page looks like
during its load sequence,
this is in mobile.
So when we first load the page,
we got a couple of empty pages.
We start seeing things draw in.
Eventually, this hero
image starts to draw.
We're waiting for it,
we're waiting for it.
When that element is complete,
the LCP event triggers,
which is before the load event,
in this case.
Now, it doesn't have to be, depending on
the website and how you've done things,
your load event could be way before LCP,
or it could be way after LCP.
In the Core Web Vital world,
it doesn't matter anymore, really,
the LCP triggers when that
largest pixel thing were to fire.
Now, if we were to add something else
to this page, like, let's say we
took this big obnoxious banner, and
we made it 80% of the viewport.
That would become the largest thing,
and the LCP would now be that element.
So you can decide what you want
your LCP to be through design.
What do you think the largest
thing on your page should be, and
how do you make that as fast as possible?
Because the design of making something the
largest is going to give the indication to
the user that this is the important thing,
this is why the user's here.
So some other considerations,
LCP measurement stops after
the first user interaction.
So that if the user starts doing things,
not scrolling, but clicking,
mousing over things, typing,
whatever, the LCP calculation stops.
The user has gotten the indication that
the page is done and they can start
interacting, and so, if things render
after that, it doesn't matter.
How fast does this need to be?
So according to Google, if for
Google to consider LCP good,
this needs to be in 2.5 seconds or less.
Now, that 2.5 second number is just,
that's what they pulled out of their
butts, but it's based on data.
Think back to why is web
performance important, and
the research is that
anytime after two seconds,
a user is going to experience
an interruption in their flow.
So we're trying to get
that less than that.
We're trying to get, so
that the page feels like it's
done in 2.5 seconds or less.
Now, what happens if you're not there?
What happens if you're
more than 2.5 seconds?
Well, now we get into penalty zone, and
the penalties get worse
depending on how bad it gets.
What are the penalties?
We don't know.
These are proprietary secrets of Google,
we don't know exactly what
the page algorithm is.
But we do know that as soon as
you fall beyond that 2.5 seconds,
there's a direct correlation between
your scores and your page rank for
those top ten rankings,
>> Todd Gardner: That's LCP.
>> Speaker 2: You mentioned LCP monitoring
will stop after the user starts
interaction.
What if the user is
clicking their mouse or
hovering an empty part of
the page before LCP is done?
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah, great question.
So, hovering, I think I misspoke, hovering
does not trigger as an interaction, right?
The user's always hovering on a desktop,
they're hovering over something, so
it's not about hovering.
But if they click,
because some users do nervously click,
they tap empty bits of background,
that does stop LCP.
So, there are some
limitations to these metrics.
So if you have a bunch of users who
are all very anxious people and
are all constantly clicking on something,
your LCP metrics are gonna be off.
They're gonna trigger right away whatever
has already loaded when the user
starts clicking.
Now, in a large population sample,
generally, that won't be super meaningful,
but if you're looking at
one particular user's LCP,
that can definitely
throw those numbers off.
Generally, with good design and
without super anxious users,
the user won't start interacting until
they feel the page is done enough for
them to start doing things,
which is good enough for Google's purpose.
If the page, or at least the part of the
page that the user sees, looks done enough
that the user can start interacting,
then LCP doesn't matter anymore.
And Google has measured the thing
that they were trying to do.
>> Speaker 2: The DOMContentLoaded and
LoadEvents,
do they apply to single page applications?
>> Todd Gardner: Yes,
all websites have these events.
These events exist regardless
of the technology you use.
However, when they are fired will
greatly depend on what is shipped in
the initial HTML that
comes out of your server.
So, in the example of an entirely
client-side rendered application,
where that HTML document doesn't
really have very much in it at all,
DOMContentLoaded and load are probably
going to fire very, very fast.
They're gonna fire as soon as that initial
HTML content is out because there's
nothing in it yet, and then your client
side rendering application picks up,
usually triggered by DOMContentLoaded or
load, and starts doing things.
And it's this pattern that really made
those two metrics kind of worthless in
terms of performance measurement,
because they didn't mean anything.
Now, I'm keeping them in
all of these slides for
completeness, our example application
is partially client-side rendered.
There's some stuff that happens on the
client, there's some stuff that happens
on the server, and so, understanding
when these happens can still be useful,
in that case, for my own metrics, for
my own understanding of a website.
But as far as Google's concerned in
terms of objectively comparing sites,
they don't mean anything at all to Google.